README.md, before:

# 🧠 Git Learning

👾 My personal repository for exploring and mastering **Git fundamentals**, **best practices**, and **workflow conventions**.

---

## 📚 Documentation

- [📘 Basics](./docs/Basics.md)
- [🧩 Prefixes](./docs/Prefixes.md)
- [⚙️ Advanced](./docs/Advanced.md)
- [💡 Tips](./docs/Tips.md)
- [🔗 Resources](./docs/Resources.md)

---

## 🧭 References

- [Git Guides](https://github.com/git-guides)
- [Atlassian Git Tutorials](https://www.atlassian.com/git/tutorials)
- [Stacking.dev](https://www.stacking.dev/)
- [Conventional Commits](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/en/v1.0.0/)
- [GitLab Version Control Best Practices](https://about.gitlab.com/topics/version-control/version-control-best-practices/)

---

## ⚖️ License

This repository is licensed under the [MIT License](https://github.com/kurtpetrola/git-learning/blob/main/LICENSE).
It serves as a personal learning resource, but others are welcome to explore, reference, and reuse the materials with proper attribution.

---

_This repository provides a structured space for documenting notes, examples, and workflows while learning Git._

Commit message:

docs(readme): add support and connect section for Git Learning repository

README.md, after:

# 🧠 Git Learning

👾 My personal repository for exploring and mastering **Git fundamentals**, **best practices**, and **workflow conventions**.

---

## 📚 Documentation

- [📘 Basics](./docs/Basics.md)
- [🧩 Prefixes](./docs/Prefixes.md)
- [⚙️ Advanced](./docs/Advanced.md)
- [💡 Tips](./docs/Tips.md)
- [🔗 Resources](./docs/Resources.md)

---

## 🧭 References

- [Git Guides](https://github.com/git-guides)
- [Atlassian Git Tutorials](https://www.atlassian.com/git/tutorials)
- [Stacking.dev](https://www.stacking.dev/)
- [Conventional Commits](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/en/v1.0.0/)
- [GitLab Version Control Best Practices](https://about.gitlab.com/topics/version-control/version-control-best-practices/)

---

## 💖 Support & Connect

If you found this repository helpful, consider leaving a ⭐ on [Git Learning](https://github.com/kurtpetrola/git-learning).  
You can also [follow me](https://github.com/kurtpetrola) on GitHub to stay updated with my latest projects.

---

## ⚖️ License

This repository is licensed under the [MIT License](https://github.com/kurtpetrola/git-learning/blob/main/LICENSE).
It serves as a personal learning resource, but others are welcome to explore, reference, and reuse the materials with proper attribution.

---

_This repository provides a structured space for documenting notes, examples, and workflows while learning Git._
